Garlic Bread

Ingredients

1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon water
8 tablespoons unsalted butter
½ teaspoon salt
⅛ teaspoon cayenne pepper
4-5 garlic cloves, minced to paste (1 tablespoon)
1 (1-pound) loaf soft Italian bread, halved horizontally

NOTE FROM THE TEST KITCHEN A 12- by 5-inch loaf of Italian bread from the bakery section of the supermarket, which has a soft, thin crust and fine crumb, works best in this recipe. We do not recommend using a rustic or crusty artisan-style loaf. A rasp-style grater makes quick work of turning the garlic into a paste. If you bake the bread on a dark baking sheet, start checking for doneness after 4 minutes after flipping the bread in step 3.

1. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven 450 degrees. Combine garlic powder and water in medium bowl. Add 4 tablespoons butter, salt, and cayenne to bowl; set aside.

2. Place remaining 4 tablespoons butter in small bowl and microwave, covered, until melted, about 30 seconds. Stir in garlic and continue to microwave, covered, until mixture is bubbling around edges, about 1 minute, stirring halfway through. Transfer garlic-butter mixture to bowl with garlic powder mixture and whisk together until it forms homogenous loose paste. (If mixture melts, set aside until it solidifies before using.)

3. Spread cut sides of loaf evenly with butter mixture. Transfer bread, cut side up, to baking sheet. Bake until butter has melted into surface of bread and bread is hot, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove baking sheet from oven. Flip bread, cut side down, place second rimmed baking sheet on top and gently press. Return bread to oven, with second baking sheet on top of bread, and continue to bake until cut side of bread is golden brown and crisp, 5 to 10 minutes longer, rotating the baking sheet halfway through. Transfer bread to cutting board. Using serrated knife cut each half into 8 slices and serve immediately.


Crispy Garlic Bread

INGREDIENTS:

- 12 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
- 4 cloves garlic, grated
- 1/4 teaspoon sugar
- 1/4 teaspoon salt
- 1/4 teaspoon pepper
- 12 slices Italian bread, 1" thick


METHOD:

1. Adjust oven rack to middle position, place rimmed baking sheet on rack, and heat oven to 425 degrees. Using fork, beat butter, garlic, sugar, salt, and pepper in small bowl until combined. Spread butter mixture evenly over both sides of bread.

2. Arrange buttered bread on heated baking sheet and bake until golden brown on first side, 8 to 10 minutes. Flip and bake until golden brown on second side, about 5 minutes. Serve. 
