Khachapuri

This is a Georgian (the country Georgia, not the state) recipe.

Dough
3 T unsalted butter
1 c milk
1 1/2 t granulated sugar or 1 T non-diastatic malt powder
1/2 t coriander
1 1/2 t salt
2 t instant yeast/active dry yeast
2 3/4 c unbleached bread flour

Filling
2 c shredded mozzarella or Muenster cheese
1/2 c ricotta cheese
1/2 c crumbled feta cheese
1 large egg
2 T unbleached bread flour
1/2 t salt
1/2-1 t coarse-ground black pepper
2 T coarsely chopped flat-leaf parsley
2 T finely chopped chives

Egg Wash
1 large egg beaten with 1 t water

Garnish
4 large eggs
4 t butter

Instructions

To make the dough:
Heat the butter and milk together in a small saucepan or in the microwave until the butter melts.

Place the sugar or malt powder, coriander, and salt in a large bowl, and pour the hot milk over it, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Cool to lukewarm.

Stir in the yeast and flour, mixing until a shaggy mass forms. Cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 10 minutes.

Knead until smooth; 8-10 minutes by hand or 6-8 minutes in a mixer on medium speed. Add an additional 1-2 T flour if the dough is too sticky.

Place the dough in a greased bowl, cover, and let rise.


To make the filling:
Place all ingredients in a large mixing bowl and beat to combine, or pulse everything together briefly with a food processor. Leave some bits of the cheese intact.


To assemble:
Line two baking sheets with parchment. Turn the risen dough out onto a lightly floured surface and divide it into four equal pieces.

Roll each piece into an oval shape about 10" long and 6" wide. Cover with greased plastic wrap and let rest for 15 minutes.

Spoon one quarter of the cheese mixture into the center of each and spread to within 1" of the sides.

Pull the dough's edges up around the cheese, folding and twisting the ends to form a boat shape.

Cover and let rise for 20 minutes, or until puffy but not doubled. While the bread is rising, preheat the oven to 375.

Brush the exposed edges of the khachapuri with the egg wash and back for 15-20 minutes.

Remove from the oven and use the back of a spoon to make an indentation about 3" across in the filling of each khachapuri. Crack an egg into each, place a teaspoon of button on top, and bake for 10-12 more minutes, until the egg is set.

Remove from oven and serve warm.