Pita Bread

Makes six 8-inch pitas

We prefer King Arthur bread flour for this recipe. If using another brand of bread flour, reduce the amount of water in the dough by 1 tablespoon (1/2 ounce). It is important to use ice-cold water in the dough to prevent overheating while in the food processor. To make, mix 1 cup of ice and 1 cup water and let stand for 5 minutes. After 5 minutes, strain out any remaining ice and measure out what you need for the dough. The pitas can be made without the overnight rest, though their flavor will be less complex. To do so, cover dough balls and let rise at room temperature for 1 hour before turning on oven and proceeding with recipe (dough should rise for a total of two hours). If you don't have a baking stone, bake the pitas on an overturned and preheated rimmed baking sheet. Pitas can be cooled fully and stored in zipper-lock bag for up to 3 days. To reheat, stack pita and wrap in foil. Place on a rimmed baking sheet and heat for 10 minutes in a 300 degree oven. Unwrap pita and heat for an additional 2 minutes.

2 cups (11 ounces) bread flour
2 teaspoons instant or rapid-rise yeast
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons honey
1 cup (8 ounces) ice-cold water
1 teaspoon salt 

1. Process flour and yeast in food processor until combined, about 2 seconds. Add oil and honey to top of flour mixture. With processor running, slowly add water and process until dough is just combined and no dry flour remains, about 10 seconds. Let dough stand for 10 minutes.

2. Add salt to dough and process until it forms satiny, sticky ball that clears sides of workbowl, 30 to 60 seconds. Remove from bowl and knead on lightly oiled countertop until smooth, about 1 minute. Divide dough into 6 equal pieces (3 3/8 ounces each). Shape dough pieces into tight balls and transfer to rimmed baking sheet coated with vegetable oil spray. Spray tops of balls lightly with vegetable oil spray, then cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 24 hours and up to 48 hours.

3. One hour before baking pitas, adjust oven rack to upper-middle position, set pizza stone on rack, and heat oven to 500 degrees.

4. Remove dough from refrigerator. Coat 1 ball of dough generously with flour and place on well-floured countertop. Using rolling pin, gently roll into 8-inch circle, adding flour as necessary to prevent sticking. Repeat with second ball of dough. Brush both sides of each dough round with pastry brush to remove any excess flour. Transfer dough rounds to un-floured peel. Slide both pitas carefully onto stone and bake until evenly inflated and lightly browned on underside, 1 to 2 minutes. Using peel, slide pitas off stone and using hands or spatula gently invert. Return pita to stone and bake until lightly browned on center of second side, 1 minute longer. Transfer pitas to wire rack and cover with clean kitchen towel. Repeat shaping and baking remaining 4 pitas in two batches. Let pitas cool for 10 minutes before serving.

