Chicken Mole Poblano

Why This Recipe Works

For a simplified mole recipe that didn’t lose any of the dish’s characteristically deep, earthy flavor, we found that just two varieties of chiles—ancho and chipotle—yielded good depth of flavor, a suggestion of spiciness, and rich color. Using store-bought almond butter gave our mole recipe a smooth texture as well saving the time it would have taken to grind nuts. We opted not to brown the chicken that would be cooked in the mole, as the sauce’s boldness eclipses any caramelized notes acquired through browning. We simply covered the skinned chicken pieces with the mole and finished the dish in the oven.

Ingredients

2 dried ancho chiles, stemmed, seeded, and torn into 1/2-inch pieces (1/2 cup)
½ dried chipotle chile, stemmed, seeded, and torn into 1/2-inch pieces (scant tablespoon)
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 onion, chopped fine
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
⅛ teaspoon ground cloves
1 ounce bittersweet, semisweet, or Mexican chocolate, chopped coarse
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 cups chicken broth
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced tomatoes, drained
¼ cup raisins
¼ cup almond butter
2 tablespoons sesame seeds, toasted, plus extra for garnish
Salt and pepper
Sugar
3 ½ pounds bone-in chicken pieces, (split breasts, legs, and/or thighs), skin removed, trimmed

Instructions
SERVES 4 TO 6
NOTE FROM THE TEST KITCHEN Serve with rice.

1. Toast anchos and chipotle in 12‑inch skillet over medium heat, stirring frequently, until fragrant, 2 to 6 minutes; transfer to plate. Add oil and onion to now-empty skillet and cook over medium-high heat until softened, 5 to 7 minutes.
2. Stir in cinnamon, cloves, chocolate, and toasted chiles and cook until chocolate is melted and bubbly, about 2 minutes. Stir in garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in broth, tomatoes, raisins, almond butter, and sesame seeds and bring to simmer. Reduce heat to medium and simmer gently, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened and measures about 21/2 cups, about 10 minutes.
3. Transfer mixture to blender and process until smooth, about 20 seconds. Season with salt, pepper, and sugar to taste. (Sauce can be refrigerated for up to 3 days; loosen with water as needed before continuing.)
4. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 400 degrees. Pat chicken dry with paper towels and season with salt and pepper. Arrange chicken in single layer in shallow baking dish and cover with mole sauce, turning to coat chicken evenly. Bake, uncovered, until breasts register 160 degrees and legs and thighs register 175 degrees, 35 to 45 minutes.
5. Remove chicken from oven, tent with aluminum foil, and let rest for 5 to 10 minutes. Sprinkle with extra sesame seeds and serve.

