Chile Colorado

3 lbs top sirloin, cut into chunks and dusted with flour
2 T oil
2 T black pepper
2 fresh garlic cloves, chopped
3 T white pepper
3 bay leaves
3 t salt

Dust meat with flour. Add oil to a dutch oven and fry meat. Add seasonings and cook until tender.

Salsa
4 fresh tomatoes, chopped
7 dried Anaheim chilis (aka california chilis)
1/2 onion, chopped
1/4 bunch cilantro
3-4 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 t cumin
1 T oregano
3 bay leaves
3 t salt

Cook all items in pot for about 30 minutes, blend and strain. Add meat, cook for about 30 more minutes.

Recipe from Pancho & Lefty's Restaurant cookbook.


MexicoInMyKitchen.com blog:
Guajillo peppers are what most people use, but dried anaheim or new mexico peppers also work. You can substitute the nopales (a cactus) with potatoes or just omit.

Ingredients
2 lbs. of pork shoulder with some fat, cut into 1-inch cubes
4 small garlic cloves
2 bay leaves
1/2 of a large white onion
1 1/2 cups of water
3 cups of fresh Nopales cleaned & cut into small strips (about 12 oz.)
6 – 8 Guajillo Peppers*
2 tablespoons of flour
1 1/4 teaspoons of cumin seeds or 1 1/2 teaspoons of ground cumin
1 1/2 teaspoons of Mexican oregano
Salt and pepper to taste

Instructions
Place the meat in a large heavy pot. Add 1/4 of the white onion, 2 bay leaves, and 2 of the garlic cloves. Cover with 1 1/2 cups of water and turn the heat to high. Once it starts boiling, reduces the heat to low and gently simmers. Cooking the meat will take about 20-30 minutes, this will give you plenty of time to prepare the sauce and to precook the nopales.

While the meat is cooking, clean the peppers by removing the seeds and veins. Place them in a saucepan, cover with water, and turn the heat to medium-high. Once the water starts boiling, turn off the heat, cover the saucepan, and set aside for 20 minutes or until the peppers are soft.

Precooking the nopales: Place the chopped nopales in a saucepan, cover with 4 cups of water, and cook over a medium heat. As soon as the water starts boiling, reduce the heat and cook for 5 minutes. After this, remove the nopales from the heat, strain, and set aside.

By this time, the water in the pot where you’re cooking the meat should have been reduced, and the meat will start to brown in its own fat. Remove the garlic and onion. If the meat is too lean and doesn’t render any fat, add 2 tablespoons of lard or vegetable oil. Sprinkle with the 2 tablespoons of flour and stir well, browning the pieces of meat.

Drain the peppers from their soaking water. In a blender, place the peppers, 1/4 of the white onion (chopped), 2 garlic cloves, cumin, and oregano, along with 1-1/2 cup of water. Blend on high until you have a very fine puree.

Pour the sauce over the cooking meat using a strainer (stir and add more water, if needed, to create a smooth sauce). Season the sauce with salt and pepper, and simmer for 15 more minutes until the meat is really tender and the sauce has thickened a little.

Stir in the cooked and drained nopales, and keep cooking for 5 more minutes. Taste to see if it needs some adjustment with the seasoning, I know some of you would like to add more cumin and oregano. Serve with rice, beans, and a stack of warm flour tortillas.


Notes

As mentioned above, you can also use New Mexico or Anaheim Peppers instead of Guajillos. You can also use a combination of Guajillo and Ancho peppers. If you decide to use Ancho, use 6 Guajillos and 2 Ancho peppers for this recipe.

This dish is not a spicy dish, but I know that some of you might like to add a little bit of heat. If so, add 4 Arbol peppers when prepping the sauce.


some random dude's recipe
Ingredients
8 dried Guajillo pepper seeded and stemmed
3 dried ancho chilis seeded and stemmed
1 dried chili de arbol seeded and stemmed
3 garlic cloves
1 white onion sliced in half
3 lbs stew meat chuck roast, wild game, etc.
¾ cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons Kent’s Original Seasoning or your favorite all-purpose seasoning (salt, pepper, onion)
6 tablespoons cooking oil avocado, olive, etc.
2 teaspoons dried oregano
2 teaspoons cumin
3 cups beef broth
2 bay leaves
Instructions
In a stockpot, add the chilies, garlic and onion. Generously cover the chilies with water and bring to a boil for about 20 minutes, or until the chilies have softened.
Meanwhile, trim any excess fat off of the meat and cut into bite-sized pieces.
In a medium bowl, combine the flour and seasoning. Toss in the meat pieces to generously coat.
Heat about 2 to 3 tablespoons of cooking oil to a large cast iron skillet over medium-high heat. Sift half of the meat from the flour and add to the skillet. Brown on all sides, about 5 minutes. Remove from the skillet and add to a separate stock pot or Dutch oven. Repeat with the remaining meat. Set aside.
Strain the peppers from the water and add them to a blender. Reserve the water. Add 1 cup of the chile water, oregano and cumin. Blend until smooth.
Stir the red sauce into the meat followed by the beef broth and bay leaves. Cover and simmer for about 1 ½ to 2 hours, or until the meat is tender. Note: you can stir in more chile water to thin the mixture, if desired. Remove the bay leaves before serving.