Chorizo and Potato Tacos

Ingredients
1 pound Yukon Gold potatoes, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch chunks
salt and pepper
3 T vegetable oil
1 T ancho chili powder
1 T paprika
1 1/2 t ground coriander
1 1/2 t dried oregano
1/4 t ground cinnamon
pinch cayenne pepper
pinch ground allspice
3 T cider vinegar
1 1/2 t sugar
1 garlic clove, minced
8 oz ground pork

Sauce
8 oz tomatillos, husks and stems removed, rinsed well, dried, and cut into 1-inch pieces
1 avocado, halved, pitted, and cut into 1-inch pieces
1-2 jalapenos, stemmed, seeded and chopped
1/4 c chopped fresh cilantro leaves and stems
1 T fresh lime juice
1 garlic clove, minced
3/4 t salt

Tacos
12 6-inch corn tortillas, warmed
finely chopped white onion
fresh cilantro
lime wedges

1. For the filling: Bring 4 cups water to boil in 12-inch nonstick skillet over high heat. Add potatoes and 1 t salt. Reduce heat to medium, cover, and cook until potatoes are just tender, 3-5 minutes. Drain potatoes and set aside. Wipe skillet clean with paper towels.

2. Combine oil, chili powder, paprika, coriander, oregano, cinnamon, cayenne, allspice, 3/4 t salt, and 1/2 t pepper in skillet. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is bubbling and fragrant. Off heat, carefully stir in vinegar, sugar, and garlic. Let stand until steam subsides and skillet cools slightly, about 5 minutes. Add pork to skillet. Mash and mix with rubber spatula until spice mixture is evenly incorporated into pork.

3. Return skillet to medium-high heat and cook, mashing and stirrilng until pork has broken into fine crumbles and juices are bubbling, about 3 minutes.

4. Stir in potatoes, cover, and reduce heat to low. Cook until potatoes are fully softened and have soaked up most of the pork juices, 6-8 minutes, stirring halfway through cooking. Off heat, using spatula, mash approximately one-eighth of potatoes. Stir mixture until mashed potatoes are evenly distributed. Cover and keep warm.

5. For the sauce: Process all ingredients in food processor until smooth, about 1 minute, scraping don sides of bowl as needed. Transfer to serving bowl.

6. For the tacos: Spoon filling into center of each tortilla and serve, passing sauce, onion, cilantro, and lime wedges separately.
