Drunken Beans

Why This Recipe Works

To give our Drunken Beans a rich, complex flavor without imparting booziness or bitterness, we used a mixture of beer and tequila. To ensure creamy, intact beans, we brined them overnight, cooked them gently in the oven, and held back the acidic beer and tomatoes until they were tender. We used bacon for its smoky, meaty flavor, but to preserve that flavor, we removed the bacon from the pot after crisping it (to use as a garnish). Sautéing onion, garlic, and poblano chiles in bacon fat creates a flavorful base.

Ingredients

Salt
1 pound (2 1/2 cups) dried pinto beans, picked over and rinsed
30 sprigs fresh cilantro, (1 bunch)
4 slices bacon, cut into 1/4-inch pieces
1 onion, chopped fine
2 poblano chiles, stemmed, seeded, and chopped fine
3 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup tequila
2 bay leaves
1 cup Mexican lager
¼ cup tomato paste
2 limes, quartered
2 ounces Cotija cheese, crumbled (1/2 cup)

Instructions
SERVES 6 AS A MAIN DISH
NOTE FROM THE TEST KITCHEN You’ll get fewer blowouts if you soak the beans overnight, but if you are pressed for time, you can quick-brine your beans. In step 1, combine the salt, water, and beans in a large Dutch oven and bring to a boil over high heat. Remove the pot from the heat, cover, and let stand for 1 hour. Drain and rinse the beans and proceed with the recipe. Serve with rice.
1. Dissolve 3 tablespoons salt in 4 quarts cold water in large bowl or container. Add beans and soak at room temperature for at least 8 hours or up to 24 hours. Drain and rinse well.
2. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 275 degrees. Pick leaves from 20 cilantro sprigs (reserve stems), chop fine, and refrigerate until needed. Using kitchen twine, tie remaining 10 cilantro sprigs and reserved stems into bundle.
3. Cook bacon in Dutch oven over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until crisp, 5 to 8 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer bacon to paper towel–lined bowl and set aside. Add onion, poblanos, and garlic to fat in pot and cook, stirring frequently, until vegetables are softened, 6 to 7 minutes. Remove from heat. Add tequila and cook until evaporated, 3 to 4 minutes. Return to heat. Increase heat to high; stir in 3 1/2 cups water, bay leaves, 1 teaspoon salt, beans, and cilantro bundle; and bring to boil. Cover, transfer to oven, and cook until beans are just soft, 45 to 60 minutes.
4. Remove pot from oven. Discard bay leaves and cilantro bundle. Stir in beer and tomato paste and bring to simmer over medium-low heat. Simmer vigorously, stirring frequently, until liquid is thick and beans are fully tender, about 30 minutes. Season with salt to taste. Serve, passing chopped cilantro, lime wedges, Cotija, and reserved bacon separately.
TO MAKE AHEAD: The finished beans can be refrigerated for up to 2 days. Before reheating, thin beans slightly with water.
TECHNIQUES
Perfect Beans—and Broth— Start Slow and Finish Strong

We like to cook beans in the oven because its heat is more even and gentle than that of the stovetop. If we’re using the cooked beans in other recipes, we drain off the cooking liquid, but that liquid is a key component in dishes like our Drunken Beans. In these cases, we follow up the stint in the oven with a hard simmer on the stove. The higher, more direct heat jostles the beans, causing them to release starches that give the cooking liquid pleasant body.

You’d think that this vigorous simmer would also cause blow-outs—exactly what we’d been avoiding by moving the initial cooking to the oven. But it didn’t, because the beans fully cook in the oven—their flesh becomes saturated and their skins softened and flexible—and are therefore less vulnerable to blowing out. Just as you can simmer canned beans in a pot of soup with minimal blowouts, we found that our oven-cooked beans could be simmered without breaking down.

START IN OVEN:
Gentle cooking softens skins, saturates interiors.


FINISH ON STOVE:
High heat causes starches to release into liquids.

