Chicken Vindaloo

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS

Spices are the cornerstone of pork vindaloo, an Indian stew of Portuguese origin that combines elements of hot, sweet, and tangy into one boldly flavored dish. We found that cumin, cardamom, cloves, and paprika gave our vindaloo its distinct flavor. Tomatoes and chicken broth, along with some aromatic onion and garlic, provided a good base. For the chicken, we chose boneless, skinless chicken thighs, which stay tender and juicy. Red wine vinegar contributed the classic tanginess, and some chopped fresh cilantro provided a burst of color and a distinct herbal note.

INGREDIENTS

3	pounds boneless, skinless chicken thigh, trimmed and cut into 1½-inch pieces
Salt and pepper
3	tablespoons vegetable oil
3	onions, chopped fine
8	garlic cloves, minced
1	tablespoon paprika
¾	teaspoon ground cumin
½	teaspoon ground cardamom
¼	teaspoon cayenne pepper
¼	teaspoon ground cloves
3	tablespoons all-purpose flour
1½	cups chicken broth
1	(14.5-ounce) can diced tomatoes
2	tablespoons red wine vinegar
2	bay leaves
1	teaspoon sugar
¼	cup minced fresh cilantro

INSTRUCTIONS
SERVES 6
Do not substitute chicken breasts. Serve with rice.

1. Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 325 degrees. Pat chicken dry with paper towels and season with salt and pepper. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in Dutch oven over medium-high heat until just smoking. Add half of chicken and brown well, about 8 minutes; transfer to bowl. Repeat with 1 tablespoon oil and remaining chicken.

2. Add remaining 1 tablespoon oil to now-empty pot and place over medium heat until shimmering. Add onions and ¼ teaspoon salt and cook until softened, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in garlic, paprika, cumin, cardamom, cayenne, and cloves and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in flour and cook for 1 minute.

3. Gradually whisk in broth, scraping up any browned bits and smoothing out any lumps. Stir in tomatoes with their juice, vinegar, bay leaves, sugar, and browned chicken with any accumulated juice. Bring to simmer. Cover pot, place in oven, and cook until chicken is tender, about 1 hour.

4. Remove stew from oven and remove bay leaves. Stir in cilantro, season with salt and pepper to taste, and serve.

