Cardamom-Lime Chicken and White Beans

Our inspiration for this hearty braise was the chive and white bean braise from “Cooking in Iran” by Najmieh Batmanglij. Our simplifications involved swapping canned white beans for dried and substituting easy-to-find ingredients for more traditional ones (such fresh lime zest for dried Persian limes). And yes, four bunches of scallions is correct—they infuse every bit of the braise with allium pungency while also lending it color. The scallions do need to be thinly sliced, but they don't have to be perfectly uniform. And remember to keep the green parts separate from the white parts, as they're added at different times. Serve the stew with rice, roasted potatoes or warmed flatbread.

Don't forget to save the liquid when draining the beans. It adds both body and flavor to the dish. If you do accidentally discard it, simply increase the chicken broth to 2⅓ cups. The braising liquid will be thinner, but the dish will still be tasty.

1 1/2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, trimmed and cut into 2-inch chunks
Kosher salt and ground black pepper
3 tablespoons salted butter
4 bunches scallions, thinly sliced, white and green parts reserved separately
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 tablespoon garam masala
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
2 15½-ounce cans cannellini beans, drained, liquid reserved
1 cup low-sodium chicken broth
2 teaspoons grated lime zest
1/4 cup lime juice

DIRECTIONS
Season the chicken with 1 teaspoon salt and ¼ teaspoon pepper. In a large pot over medium-high, melt the butter. Add the chicken and scallion whites, then cook, stirring once or twice, until both the chicken and scallions begin to turn golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the tomato paste, garam masala, cardamom, turmeric, 1½ teaspoons salt and ½ teaspoon pepper.

Cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, 30 to 60 seconds. Add the bean liquid, broth, and lime zest and juice, then bring to a boil. Reduce to mediumand cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally and adjusting the heat as needed to maintain a simmer, until the chicken is opaque when cut into, 5 to 7 minutes.

Stir in the scallion greens and the beans, then cook until the beans are heated through, another 2 minutes. Taste and season with salt and pepper.
