Chicken and Sausage Gumbo

Most recipes for Louisiana gumbo start with a wet roux, a cooked paste of flour and fat that can take an hour or more to make. We streamlined this process by using a dry roux made by toasting flour in the oven, which produces the same effect as a traditional wet roux but without the oil or the need to stand over the stove and stir. Our gumbo calls for flavorful but easy-to-work-with boneless, skinless chicken thighs and andouille sausage, and we rounded out the dish by seasoning it with garlic, thyme, bay leaves, and spices. We stirred in white vinegar rather than hot sauce at the end for acidity that doesn’t add heat to an already well-seasoned dish.

INGREDIENTS

1	cup (5 ounces) all-purpose flour
1	tablespoon vegetable oil
1	onion, chopped fine
1	green bell pepper, chopped fine
2	celery ribs, chopped fine
1	tablespoon minced fresh thyme
3	garlic cloves, minced
1	teaspoon paprika
2	bay leaves
½	teaspoon cayenne pepper
Salt and pepper
4	cups chicken broth, room temperature
2	pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, trimmed
8	ounces andouille sausage, halved and sliced 1/4 inch thick
6	scallions, sliced thin
1	teaspoon distilled white vinegar
Hot sauce

INSTRUCTIONS
SERVES 6
This recipe is engineered for efficiency: Start toasting the flour in the oven before prepping the remaining ingredients and beginning to cook. We strongly recommend using andouille, but in a pinch, you can substitute kielbasa, if desired. In step 3, be sure to whisk the broth into the toasted flour in small increments to prevent lumps from forming. The saltiness of the final dish may vary depending on the brand of andouille you use, so liberal seasoning with additional salt before serving may be necessary. Serve over white rice.

1. Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat oven to 425 degrees. Place flour in 12-inch skillet and bake, stirring occasionally, until color of ground cinnamon, 40 to 55 minutes. (As flour approaches desired color, it will take on very nutty aroma that will smell faintly of burnt popcorn, and it will need to be stirred more frequently.) Transfer flour to medium bowl and let cool. (Toasted flour can be stored in airtight container in cool, dark place for up to 6 months.)

2. Heat oil in Dutch oven over medium heat until shimmering. Add onion, bell pepper, and celery and cook, stirring frequently, until softened, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in thyme, garlic, paprika, bay leaves, cayenne, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon pepper and cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in 2 cups broth. Add chicken in single layer (chicken will not be completely submerged in liquid) and bring to simmer. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer until chicken is fork-tender, 15 to 17 minutes. Transfer chicken to plate.

3. Slowly whisk remaining 2 cups broth in small increments into toasted flour until thick, smooth, batter-like paste forms. Increase heat to medium and slowly whisk paste into gumbo, making sure each addition is incorporated before adding next. Stir in andouille. Simmer, uncovered, until gumbo thickens slightly, 20 to 25 minutes.

4. Once cool enough to handle, shred chicken into bite-size pieces. Stir chicken and scallions into gumbo. Remove pot from heat, stir in vinegar, and season with salt to taste. Discard bay leaves. Serve, passing hot sauce separately. (Gumbo can be refrigerated in airtight container for up to 3 days.)

