CHICKEN SCHNITZEL 
Serves 6-8

The two cups of oil called for in this recipe are necessary to achieve the wrinkled, puffed appearance characteristic of Schnitzel; the cutlets absorb very little oil. Use fine, unseasoned bread crumbs straight from the canister in this recipe; substituting panko or homemade breadcrumbs will produce a crust that lacks the proper texture and appearance. The ample space provided by a large Dutch oven is necessary here; do not attempt to use a smaller pot. To ensure an accurate reading when temping the oil, carefully tilt the pot and take the temperature in the deepest spot. Serve with a salad.

½ cup (3 ½ ounces) all-purpose flour
2 large eggs
2 cups plain dried bread crumbs
1 tablespoon vegetable oil plus 2 cups oil for frying
4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts (6 to 8 ounces each), trimmed 
2 tablespoons kosher salt
pepper

Lemon wedges for serving

1. Spread flour in shallow dish. Beat eggs with 1 tablespoon oil in second shallow dish.  Place bread crumbs in third shallow dish. Place wire cooling rack in rimmed baking sheet. Line second rimmed baking sheet with double thickness of paper towels. Heat oven to 200 degrees.

2. If breasts have tenderloins attached, remove and reserve them for another use. Halve breasts horizontally to form eight cutlets of even thickness. Place one cutlet on sheet of plastic wrap, top with second sheet of plastic and pound to 1/4-inch thickness. Repeat with remaining cutlets. Season each cutlet on both sides with ¾ teaspoon kosher salt and pepper to taste.

3. Working with 1 cutlet at a time, dredge cutlet thoroughly in flour, shaking off excess, then coat with egg mixture, allowing excess to drip back into dish to ensure very thin coating. Coat evenly with bread crumbs, pressing on crumbs to adhere. Place breaded cutlet on wire rack-lined baking sheet. Repeat with remaining cutlets, taking care not to overlap; let coating dry 5 minutes.

4. Heat remaining 2 cups oil in large Dutch oven over medium-high heat until it registers 350 degrees. Lay 2-3 cutlets (depending on size), without overlapping, in pan and cook, shaking pan continuously and gently, until cutlets are wrinkled and light golden brown on both sides, 1 to 1 ½  minutes per side. Transfer cutlets to prepared baking sheet, flip to blot excess oil, and place in oven to stay warm. Repeat with remaining cutlets. Serve immediately with lemon wedges.
