Shakshuka (Eggs in spicy tomato and roasted red pepper sauce)

Serves 4

Shakshuka is a North African dish that has become popular throughout the Middle East: eggs cooked to a soft consistency in a spicy tomato and pepper sauce. We wanted our sauce to have a balanced but kicky spice flavor, and a smooth texture offset by some pleasing chunkiness. We wanted the eggs to have just-set whites, and yolks that ranged from runny to slightly set but still deep yellow, not chalky.  

Served with pita bread, Shakshuka makes a satisfying breakfast. For brunch or dinner, you may wish to add a green salad. Use fridge-cold eggs for this recipe. The shallow indentations made in the sauce in step 3 are not intended to fully contain the eggs; they simply cradle the yolks and ensure even distribution of the eggs. If you have a glass lid for your skillet, this is a great place to use it. If not feel free to peek at the eggs frequently as they cook.

4 (8-inch) pita breads
1 (28-ounce) can whole peeled tomatoes, drained
2 (12-ounce) jars roasted red peppers, drained
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
4 garlic cloves, sliced thin
1 tablespoon tomato paste
2 teaspoons ground coriander
2 teaspoons smoked paprika
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon pepper
¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
8 large eggs

1/2 cup coarsely chopped fresh cilantro leaves and stems

1. Cut enough pita bread into 1/2-inch pieces to make 1/2 cup (about 1/3 pita bread). Cut remaining pitas into wedges for serving. Process 1/2 cup pita pieces, tomatoes, and half of roasted red peppers in blender until smooth, 1 to 2 minutes. Cut remaining roasted red peppers into ¼-inch pieces and set aside.

2. Heat olive oil in 12-inch skillet over medium heat until shimmering. Add garlic and cook, stirring occasionally until golden, 1 to 2 minutes. Add tomato paste, coriander, smoked paprika, cumin, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and cook, stirring constantly, until rust colored and fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. Stir in puree and chopped peppers (mixture may sputter) and bring to simmer. Reduce heat to maintain simmer. Continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened (spatula will leave trail that slowly fills in behind it, but sauce will still slosh in pan when shaken), 10 to 12 minutes. 

3. Remove skillet from heat. Using back of spoon, make 8 shallow indentations in sauce (7 around perimeter and 1 in center). Crack 1 egg into small bowl and pour into an indentation (photo 1). Repeat with remaining eggs. Spoon sauce over edges of egg whites so that whites are partially covered and yolks are exposed (Photo 2).

4. Bring to simmer over medium heat (there should be small bubbles across entire surface). Reduce heat to maintain simmer. Cover and cook until yolks film over, 4 to 5 minutes. Continue to cook, covered, until whites are softly but uniformly set (if pan is shaken lightly, each egg should jiggle as a single unit), 1 to 2 minutes more. Remove from heat and sprinkle with cilantro. Serve immediately, passing pita wedges.
