Salted Peanut Butter–Pretzel–Chocolate Chip Cookies

Note: Baked up a little crispy for the size, maybe cut cooking time down?
I used creamy peanut butter and threw in 1/4c coarsely-chopped peanuts

We dug deep into the cookie jar this year and found some unexpected treats.

These hearty cookies offer something for everyone—they’re chewy, crunchy, salty, and sweet. Crushed pretzel rods and crunchy peanut butter give the cookies knockout texture, and a sprinkling of flake sea salt balances the sweetness of the chocolate.
  
INGREDIENTS

Makes 24 cookies
1 1/4	cups (6 1/4 ounces) all-purpose flour
1	cup (3 ounces) quick oats
1	teaspoon baking soda
1/4	teaspoon salt
12	tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4	cups packed (8 3/4 ounces) light brown sugar
2/3	cup crunchy peanut butter
1	large egg
1	teaspoon vanilla extract
1	cup bittersweet chocolate chips
1 1/2	ounces pretzel sticks, coarsely crushed (2/3 cup)
Flake sea salt

These hearty cookies have something for everyone—they’re chewy, crunchy, salty, and sweet.

1. Combine flour, oats, baking soda, and salt in bowl. Using stand mixer fitted with paddle, beat butter and sugar on medium speed until smooth, about 1 minute. Add peanut butter, egg, and vanilla and mix until fully incorporated, about 30 seconds, scraping down bowl as needed.

2. Reduce speed to low and slowly add flour mixture; continue to mix until just combined. Add chocolate chips and pretzels and mix until just incorporated. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour.

3. Adjust oven racks to upper-middle and lower-middle positions and heat oven to 350 degrees. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Working with 2 tablespoons chilled dough at a time, roll into 1 1/2-inch balls and space them evenly on prepared sheets, 12 per sheet. Press each ball to 3/4-inch thickness using bottom of greased dry measuring cup.

4. Bake until puffed and cracks just form on top, 11 to 13 minutes, switching and rotating sheets halfway through baking. Let cookies cool on sheets for 5 minutes. Sprinkle cookies with sea salt, then transfer to wire rack. Let cookies cool completely before serving.

