Inside-Out Pumpkin Muffins

HANDS-ON TIME: 15 mins. to 25 mins.
TOTAL TIME: 33 mins. to 45 mins.
BAKING TIME: 18 mins. to 20 mins.
YIELD: 12 to 16 muffins

INGREDIENTS

STREUSEL TOPPING
½ cup King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose
Flour or King Arthur White Whole Wheat Flour
1/4 cup brown sugar (packed)
1/4 cup old-fashioned rolled oats or quick oats
(not instant)
1/8 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons butter, at firm room temperature

FILLING
1 cup (8-ounce package) cream cheese, at room
temperature; low-fat is fine
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract or a few drops Fiori di
Sicilia flavoring, optional

MUFFINS
1 cup pumpkin purée (about half a 15-ounce can)
2 large eggs
1/2 cup brown sugar
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
1/4 cup boiled cider (for best flavor), dark corn
syrup, or honey
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice; or 1 teaspoon
ground cinnamon + 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves +
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/3 cup milk
1 1/2 cups King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose
Flour or King Arthur White Whole Wheat Flour

DIRECTIONS
1 Preheat the oven to 400°F. Line a standard 12-cup muffin pan with muffin papers, and grease the
papers.
2 To make the streusel: Whisk together the flour, sugar, oats, and salt. Work in the butter, mixing
until coarse crumbs form. Set the topping aside.
3 To make the filling: Make sure the cream cheese is at room temperature. If it’s not, place it in a
microwave-safe bowl, and heat on low power for 40 seconds, just to soften it. Stir in the sugar.
4 To make the batter: Whisk together the pumpkin, eggs, brown sugar, oil, boiled cider, salt, spices,
baking powder, baking soda, and milk. Scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl.
5 Add the flour and mix until well combined. Scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl and
beat briefly to incorporate the scrapings.
6 Drop a scant 2 tablespoons of the batter (a heaping tablespoon cookie scoop works well here)
into each muffin cup, spreading it to cover the bottom. Dollop on a heaping tablespoon of filling,
then cover with another 2 tablespoons of batter.
7 Sprinkle each muffin with some of the streusel topping.
8 Bake the muffins for 18 to 20 minutes, until a cake tester inserted towards the edge (not into the
filling) comes out crumb-free.
9 Remove the muffins from the oven. As soon as they’re cool enough to safely handle, transfer
them to a rack to cool completely.
10 Enjoy fresh-baked muffins within 2 to 3 hours; refrigerate up to 3 days for longer storage.
Freeze, well-wrapped, up to 3 weeks. Rewarm cold muffins in a preheated 350°F oven, tented with
foil. Or heat briefly in a microwave set at low power.


TIPS FROM OUR BAKERS
* For best release, use muffin papers, and spray them with nonstick vegetable oil spray before filling
with batter.
* If you follow the recipe directions — making the streusel first, then the filling, then the batter — all
three can be made in the same mixing bowl. Less cleanup!
* A small ice cream scoop (or tablespoon cookie scoop) is perfect for scooping the batter into the
muffin cups; the filling into the batter, and the streusel on top.
* Worried about your potholder damaging a fragile, just-baked muffin while you’re pulling them
out of the oven? For easiest handling, set the muffin pan on a baking sheet before putting both
pans into the oven.

