Buttermilk Doughnuts

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS
One of the secrets to the best buttermilk doughnut recipe was the right frying medium. Vegetable shortening in the form of Crisco produced a much less greasy doughnut than vegetable oil or peanut oil. Temperature was important, too, for our buttermilk doughnut recipe. At 350 degrees, the dough absorbed too much oil; at 385 degrees the outside started to burn before the inside could cook through. We got our best results by bringing the oil up to 375 degrees before adding the doughnuts; it would fall back to 360-365 degrees once the doughnuts were dropped in.

INGREDIENTS
3 ½	cups unbleached all-purpose flour, plus extra for surfaces
1	cup granulated sugar
½	teaspoon baking soda
2	teaspoons baking powder
1	teaspoon table salt
1 ½	teaspoons fresh grated nutmeg
¾	cup buttermilk
4	tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2	large eggs
1	egg yolk
6	cups vegetable shortening for frying

INSTRUCTIONS
MAKES 15 TO 17 DOUGHNUTS
There are two variations on this recipe, (see related recipe for sugared version and cinnamon-sugared version). For a bit more flavor, add two ounces of lard to every cup of shortening. You can also add one-quarter cup of flour to the recipe, which will produce a chewier doughnut with a less crispy exterior. Regardless, these doughnuts are best eaten very warm, as soon out of the pot as possible. The dough can be made by hand, using a large bowl with a wooden spoon, or in a mixer as directed. Like cookies, doughnuts rolled from scraps will be a little drier and less crisp than those cut from the first roll.

1. Mix 1 cup flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and nutmeg in bowl of standing mixer fitted with paddle attachment.

2. Mix buttermilk, butter, and eggs in 2-cup Pyrex measuring cup. Add wet ingredients to the dry; beat on medium speed (number 4 setting on a KitchenAid) until smooth, about 30 seconds. Decrease speed to low (number 2 setting on a KitchenAid); add remaining flour and mix until just combined, about 30 seconds. Stir batter once or twice with wooden spoon or rubber spatula to ensure that all liquid is incorporated. (The dough will be moist and tacky, a cross between cake batter and cookie dough.)

3. Fit candy thermometer to side of cast-iron kettle or large, heavy-bottomed soup kettle; gradually heat shortening over medium-high heat to 375 degrees. Meanwhile, turn dough onto floured work surface. Roll with heavily floured rolling pin to 1/2-inch thick. Stamp out dough rings with heavily floured doughnut cutter, reflouring between cuts. Transfer dough rounds to jelly roll pan or large wire rack. Gather scraps and gently press into disk; repeat rolling and stamping process until all dough is used. (Cut doughnuts can be covered with plastic wrap and stored at room temperature up to 2 hours.)

4. Carefully drop dough rings into hot fat four or five at a time, depending on kettle size. Turn doughnuts as they rise to surface with tongs, a Chinese skimmer, or a slotted spoon. Fry doughnuts until golden brown, about 50 seconds per side. Drain on paper towel-lined jelly roll pan or wire rack. Repeat frying, returning fat to temperature between each batch.
