Cardamom Buns (Swedish kardemummabullar)

Ingredients

Dough
2 1/3 cups (280g) King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
1/2 cup (57g) King Arthur Organic Whole Wheat Flour
1/2 cup (113g) water, lukewarm
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (85g) milk, lukewarm
4 tablespoons (57g) butter, at room temperature
2 1/2 tablespoons (31g) granulated sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
2 teaspoons instant yeast
3/4 teaspoon Ground Cardamom

Filling
1/2 cup (99g) granulated sugar
2 teaspoons to 1 tablespoon Ground Cardamom
1 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons black cocoa
1/2 teaspoon black pepper, optional
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 large egg, beaten with 1 tablespoon water (egg wash)

Glaze
1/4 cup (56g) water
2 tablespoons (25g) granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon Ground Cardamom
Topping

Swedish pearl sugar, for sprinkling

Instructions
To make the dough: In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, combine all of the dough ingredients. Mix for 1 to 2 minutes on low until combined, then increase to medium speed and knead until the dough is smooth and pulls away from the sides of the bowl, about 5 minutes. If mixing by hand, add the dough ingredients to a large bowl and mix to combine. Let the dough rest for 20 minutes and then knead until smooth. 

Place the dough in a lightly greased bowl, cover, and let it rest for 60 minutes or until puffy and risen but not necessarily doubled in size.  

To make the filling: In a small bowl, combine all of the filling ingredients except for the egg wash and set aside.  

To roll the dough: Place a piece of parchment on your work surface and lightly flour it. (Alternatively, you can work directly on a lightly floured surface, though the parchment helps with transport later.) Gently transfer the dough onto the floured surface and sprinkle flour on top. Press or roll the dough with a rolling pin into a rectangle, roughly 12" x 20" with the long side running parallel to the edge of your work surface. 

Brush the entire surface of the dough with egg wash. Reserve any excess. Sprinkle the filling mixture evenly across the entire surface of the dough. Fold the dough like a letter in thirds: starting on the right side, fold one third into the center, then the opposite third over the first.  

After the letter fold, the dough block should measure approximately 12" x 6 1/2". Roll briefly to extend the width of the dough so that it measures roughly 12" x 8". Lift the parchment and dough onto a baking sheet. Cover the dough with plastic or slide a food-safe bag over the entire tray, press out all the air, and chill for 10 to 15 minutes in the refrigerator. 

Keep the parchment on the baking sheet and gently transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and roll to elongate it to a 16" x 8" rectangle.  

Using a ruler and a pizza wheel or sharp knife, make small notches along the short side of the dough at 1" intervals.  Repeat on the other short end of the dough. Align the ruler with the notches at both ends, placing it flat on the dough. Use it as a guide to cut 8 strips that are 1" wide and 16" in length. 

One at a time, twist the ends of each dough strip in opposite directions. The dough may start to form a tube, which is OK, but stop shy of twisting so tightly that a tube fully forms. (For the best rise, it is better to have a looser twist than a very tightly wound tube.) Loosely coil the tube into a single layered spiral, tucking only the tip underneath at the end. Press gently to seal. Using both hands or a spatula, carefully place each spiral onto the parchment-lined baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining dough until all the buns are shaped.

Cover the cardamom buns loosely and place them in a warm place to rise for 60 to 75 minutes, or until slightly puffy and risen. Towards the end of the rising time, preheat the oven to 450°F.  

When ready to bake, gently brush each cardamom bun with the reserved egg wash. 

Bake the cardamom buns for 13 to 20 minutes, or until deep golden brown and the interior temperature reaches at least 185°F when measured with a digital thermometer.

To make the glaze: While the rolls bake, prepare the glaze. In a small saucepan, stir together the glaze ingredients. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat while stirring and simmer for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture has thickened slightly. Set aside until ready to use.  

When the buns are finished baking, remove them from the oven and glaze immediately. Sprinkle with Swedish pearl sugar quickly before the glaze dries. 

Storage information: These cardamom buns are best enjoyed warm the day they are baked, but once baked, they can be stored overnight in an airtight container at room temperature and reheated a day later in a 350°F oven for 10 minutes. Freeze for longer storage. 

Tips from our Bakers
For bolder flavor, grind fresh cardamom for this recipe. If using already-ground cardamom, be sure that it smells fragrant. 

If using fresh cardamom pods, grind enough to yield 3/4 teaspoon of the ground seeds for the dough plus 3/4 teaspoon for the filling. Replace the ground cardamom in the glaze with up to 10 crushed cardamom pods.



Swedish Cardamom Buns
Ingredients

For the dough:
50g (1.7oz) fresh yeast
500g (17.6oz) milk
10g cardamom, ground
6g salt
250g (about 9oz) butter, room temperature
200g (7oz) granulated sugar
1000g (35oz) all-purpose flour

For the filling:
200g (7oz) butter, room temperature
90g granulated sugar
80g dark brown sugar
20g cardamom, ground
15g water
10g sugar
¼ tsp vanilla extract
5g corn flour (corn starch)

For the syrup:
200g (7oz) water
90g (3.2oz) granulated sugar
20g honey

For the cardamom sugar:
50g (1.7oz) granulated sugar
10g cardamom, ground

For the egg wash:
1 egg
15 water
2g salt
 
Method

Step 1

To make the dough, crumble the yeast into a bowl and add the milk. Add the cardamom, salt and knobs of butter, then add the sugar. Add the flour in small parts and knead the dough for 5-10 minutes with your hands or in a mixer until smooth. Cover the dough with clingfilm or a kitchen towel and let the dough leaven for 30 minutes.

Step 2

Meanwhile, combine all of the ingredients for the filling together in a medium bowl.

Step 3

Roll the dough into a 30x60cm (12x24in) rectangle. Spread the filling on top of the dough. Fold the dough lengthwise. Roll again lightly into a rectangle. Slice crosswise into 1cm (⅓in) wide strips. Wrap each strip around two fingers and tie the strip into a knot.

Step 4

Put the buns onto an oven tray with baking paper and leave some space around each bun. Let them leaven for 2 hours at room temperature.

Step 5

Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, boil the ingredients for the syrup, just until the sugar is dissolved. Remove from the heat and let cool.

Step 6

In a small bowl, mix the sugar and cardamom.

Step 7

Heat the oven to 200C/400F. For the egg wash, beat the egg, water and salt with a fork. Brush the buns with the mixture and let them bake in the middle of the oven for 12-15 minutes or until they are golden brown. Take the buns out of the oven and brush them with the syrup, then sprinkle with sugar and cardamom. Serve warm or at room temperature.