Chocolate-Glazed Doughnuts

MAKES ABOUT 16 DOUGHNUTS AND HOLES, OR 16 FILLED DOUGHNUTS

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS
To get the tender texture that we were after in our doughnut recipe, we preferred all-purpose flour to bread flour, which made dense, tough doughnuts reminiscent of bagels. Testing uncovered the right amount of sugar needed in our doughnut recipe to add a noticeable yet restrained sweetness that would complement a sugary glaze. We tried different liquids in our doughnut dough and milk came out on top—the doughnuts made with it had the softest, most tender texture.

INGREDIENTS
3 - 3 ¼	cups (15 - 16 1/4 ounces) unbleached all-purpose flour
1	envelope (about 2 1/4 teaspoons) instant yeast
6	tablespoon sugar (about 2 1/2 ounces)
½	teaspoon salt
⅔	cup whole milk, at room temperature
2	large eggs, beaten lightly
6	tablespoon (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 6 pieces, softened but still cool
6	cups (40 ounces) vegetable shortening, such as Crisco, for frying
4	ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
½	cup half-and-half, hot
2	cups sifted confectioners' sugar

INSTRUCTIONS

If you don’t have a doughnut cutter, you can improvise with 2 biscuit cutters: a standard size cutter (about 2½ inches) for cutting out the doughnuts and a smaller one (about 1¼ inches) for cutting out the holes. For those adept with chopsticks, long-handled cooking chopsticks are the best tool for removing the doughnuts with holes from the hot fat. Otherwise, use a slotted spoon, tongs, or Chinese skimmer. Don’t try to make this dough by hand or in a food processor; your hands or the metal blade will heat the butter too much and make the dough greasy. These doughnuts are best eaten the day they are made.

1. In a medium bowl, whisk together 3 cups of the flour, the yeast, 6 tablespoons sugar, and the salt. Set aside.

2. Place the milk and eggs in the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the dough hook. Add the flour mixture and mix on low speed for 3 to 4 minutes, or until a ball of dough forms.

3. Add the softened butter one piece at a time, waiting about 15 seconds after each addition. Continue mixing for about 3 minutes longer, adding the remaining flour 1 tablespoon at a time if necessary, until the dough forms a soft ball.

4. Place the dough in a lightly oiled medium bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let the dough rise at room temperature until nearly doubled in size, 2 to 2½ hours. Place the dough onto a floured surface and, using a rolling pin, roll it out to a thickness of ½ inch. Cut the dough using a 2½- or 3-inch doughnut cutter, gathering the scraps and rerolling them as necessary. Place the doughnut rings and holes onto a floured baking sheet. Loosely cover with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature until slightly puffy, 30 to 45 minutes.

5. Meanwhile, fit a candy thermometer to the side of a large Dutch oven. Add the shortening to the pot and gradually heat the shortening over medium-high heat to 375 degrees. Place the rings and holes carefully into the hot fat 4 or 5 at a time. Fry until golden brown, about 30 seconds per side for the holes and 45 to 60 seconds per side for the doughnuts. Remove the doughnuts from the hot oil and drain on a paper towel-lined rimmed baking sheet or wire rack. Repeat with the remaining doughnuts, returning the fat to temperature between batches.

6. While the doughnuts are cooling, place chocolate in a small bowl. Add half-and-half and whisk together to melt the chocolate. Add confectioners' sugar, and whisk until no lumps remain. When the doughnuts have cooled, dip one side of each doughnut into the glaze, shake off any excess glaze, and transfer to a wire rack to set the glaze.
