Big and Bubbly Cinnamon Roll Focaccia
King Arthur Baking

Ingredients

Dough
3 cups (360g) King Arthur Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
1 3/4 teaspoons (11g) table salt
1 teaspoon instant yeast
1 teaspoon granulated sugar
1 1/4 cups (284g) water, warm (90°F to 110°F)*
1 1/2 tablespoons (18g) olive oil
1/4 cup (35g) King Arthur Cinnamon Sweet Bits*
See “tips,” below.

Pan and topping
3 tablespoons (36g) olive oil, divided
1/3 cup (71g) light brown sugar, packed
2 tablespoons (28g) butter, softened
1 tablespoon (5g) Vietnamese cinnamon

Glaze
3/4 cup (85g) confectioners' sugar, sifted if lumpy
1 1/2 tablespoons (21g) milk or heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon King Arthur Pure Vanilla Extract
pinch of table salt


Instructions

To make the dough: Weigh your flour; or measure it by gently spooning it into a cup, then sweeping off any excess. In a large bowl (a 3-quart bowl with a lid works great), whisk together the flour, salt, yeast, and sugar.  

Add the water and olive oil and stir — with a spatula, bowl scraper, dough whisk, or your hands — until the mixture is thoroughly combined and homogeneous; there should be no dry patches or lumps. Cover the bowl and set it aside for 15 minutes.  


Perform the first bowl fold: Use a wet hand to grab a section of dough from one side of the bowl, then lift it up and press it into the center. Repeat this motion, grabbing a new section of dough each time, until you’ve made a full circle around the bowl, about 8 to 12 times. Once you’ve circled the bowl, flip the dough over in the bowl so that the smooth side is up; the first bowl fold is now complete. Cover the bowl and let the dough rest for 15 minutes. Note: You’ll do this three more times over the next 45 minutes, strengthening the dough each time.  


Repeat the bowl fold for a second time. (Remember to use a wet hand to prevent the dough from sticking!) At this point, the dough should feel smoother and tighter. Cover the bowl and let the dough rest for 15 minutes.  

Sprinkle about half of the Cinnamon Sweet Bits (2 tablespoons or 18g) over the dough, then repeat the bowl fold for a third time, covering up the Cinnamon Sweet Bits as you fold. Cover the bowl and let the dough rest for 15 minutes.

Sprinkle the remaining Cinnamon Sweet Bits over the dough, then repeat the bowl fold for a fourth and final time; the dough should feel relatively strong. 

Cover the bowl and let the dough rise at a warm room temperature (70°F to 75°F) for 1 hour; see this post, Where to put dough to rise, for tips. After 1 hour, the dough should have nearly doubled in size and will be very puffy; it may even have a few bubbles on the surface.


To prepare the pan: Once the dough has risen, spray the bottom and sides of a 9" square Fabulous Focaccia Pan with nonstick spray. (See “tips,” below for details about this pan as well as alternate pan options.) Fully line the pan with parchment so that there’s some excess overhanging the edges. Lightly spray the parchment with nonstick spray, add 1 tablespoon (13g) of the olive oil, and tilt the pan to spread the oil evenly across the bottom.

Use a bowl scraper or flexible spatula to gently transfer the risen dough to the center of the pan. Drizzle 1 tablespoon (13g) of the olive oil over the dough. 

Cover the pan and let the dough rise at a warm room temperature for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, until it’s marshmallowy and jiggly; the dough should nearly fill the corners of the pan and be very close to the top edge.

While the dough rises, make the topping: In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, butter, and cinnamon and mix until it forms a smooth, thick paste. Cover and set aside until the dough has risen. 

Toward the end of the rise, preheat the oven to 450°F with a rack in the lower third.

Once the dough has risen, lightly coat your fingers in oil. Starting at one edge, press your fingertips into the dough until they reach the bottom of the pan, creating dimples. Repeat this process, working your way from one edge to the other, spacing the dimples about 1 1/2" apart. The goal is to thoroughly dimple the dough without deflating it — aim for decisive yet gentle motions. If there are any large untouched areas of the dough, add additional dimples using one finger.

To top the dough: Use your hands to distribute the brown sugar mixture all over the dough, aiming to fill in many of the dimples. Dimple the dough once more, pushing the brown sugar mixture into the dough. Drizzle the remaining 1 tablespoon (13g) olive oil all over the surface of the dough.

Bake the cinnamon roll focaccia on the lower rack for 15 to 20 minutes, until the topping is thick and bubbly and any exposed dough is deep golden brown. If the focaccia is browning too fast, tent it with foil after 15 minutes.

Remove the focaccia from the oven. Using the parchment and a thin spatula for assistance, carefully transfer the focaccia to a wire rack to cool slightly.

To make the glaze: In a small bowl, stir together the ingredients to make a smooth glaze; the consistency should resemble honey. Drizzle it all over the warm focaccia and allow it to set, 10 to 15 minutes.

Cut into slices and serve the cinnamon roll focaccia slightly warm or at room temperature.

Storage information: Focaccia is best enjoyed the day it's made. If storing leftovers, wrap the focaccia loosely in foil, keep it at room temperature, and reheat before serving. 
 

Tips from our Bakers
The temperature of your ingredients and rising environment will impact how long it takes for your dough to rise. In warmer months (or when your indoor temperature is 70°F to 75°F), the liquid should be 90°F to 100°F. In cooler months (or when your indoor temperature is around 65°F), use 100°F to 110°F liquid. The desired dough temperature after mixing (step two) should be between 82°F and 86°F; if it’s outside of this range, your dough may rise on a different timeline.