Ciambella traditionally is baked in a ring mold, a pan not found in most home kitchens. So we developed this recipe using a standard Bundt pan. A spice grinder or mortar and pestle worked well for grinding the anise seeds, but grind it coarse so the seeds retain some texture. Sambuca, an Italian anise-flavored liqueur, gave us a second layer of flavor; ouzo or pastis would be a fine substitute. If you prefer no alcohol, substitute ½ teaspoon anise extract plus 3 tablespoons orange juice. In an airtight container at room temperature, the cake will keep for up to three days.

Don’t use regular cooking spray to coat the Bundt pan. Baking spray, which contains flour, ensures the cake releases easily. Don't overmix the batter after adding the flour; this will cause the cake to bake up with a dense, tough crumb. It's fine if the batter shows a few small lumps.

293 grams (2¼ cups) all-purpose flour
50 grams (½ cup) almond flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
267 grams (1¼ cups) white sugar
1 tablespoon grated orange zest, and 2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon orange juice
2 teaspoons anise seed, coarsely ground
3 large eggs
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3/4 cup whole milk
3 tablespoons Sambuca liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
125 grams (1 cup) powdered sugar
1 teaspoon honey

DIRECTIONS
Heat the oven to 350°F with a rack in the middle position. Generously coat a nonstick 12-cup Bundt pan with baking spray. In a medium bowl, whisk together both flours, the baking powder and salt.

In a large bowl, combine the white sugar, orange zest and anise seed. Rub the mixture between your fingertips until the sugar is moistened and beginning to clump. Add the eggs and whisk until lightened in color and slightly thickened, about 30 seconds. While whisking, gradually pour in the oil; whisk until completely incorporated. Whisk in the milk, Sambuca and vanilla. Add the flour mixture and whisk until smooth with a few small lumps.

Pour into the prepared pan. Bake until golden brown and a toothpick inserted at the center comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Let cool in the pan on a wire rack for 15 minutes, then invert the cake onto the rack. Let cool completely, about 2 hours.

In a small bowl, whisk the powdered sugar, orange juice and honey until smooth. Brush evenly over the cake. Let the glaze dry until no longer sticky, about 1 hour.
