Chocolate Haupia Cream Pie

The name takes some sounding out, but once we’d settled the recipe, this Hawaiian pie was the talk of the test kitchen.

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS

The defining characteristic of this popular Hawaiian dessert is its firm haupia, pronounced how-PEE-ah, or coconut pudding, filling. Not the rich, ploppable stuff you usually think of as pudding, haupia is stable and slices cleanly: ¼ cup of cornstarch and a can of coconut milk with plenty of fat produce pudding with the perfect consistency. Milk not only helps the ingredients blend but also provides richness that complements the coconut flavor. We use a store-bought pie crust for ease. Combining just 1 cup of the hot pudding with chopped chocolate melts the chocolate and creates layers of chocolate and coconut pudding.

  
INGREDIENTS


Serves 8 to 10
CRUST

1	(9-inch) store-bought pie dough round

FILLING

4	ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1	(13.5-ounce) can unsweetened coconut milk
1	cup whole milk
½	cup (3 1/2 ounces) Sugar
¼	cup (1 ounce) cornstarch
⅛	teaspoon Salt

TOPPING

1	cup heavy cream, chilled
1	tablespoon Sugar


We prefer Chaokoh or Thai Kitchen coconut milk for this recipe. Do not use “lite” coconut milk or any coconut milk that has less than 12 grams of fat and/or greater than 3 grams of sugar per 1/3-cup serving. If you do, the pudding will be too runny and sweet. While we prefer whole milk in this recipe, 2 percent low-fat milk will also work. We use a pastry bag outfitted with a star tip to decorate the pie with whipped cream. Our favorite piping set is the Wilton 20-Piece Beginning Buttercream Decorating Set.

1. FOR THE CRUST: Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 375 degrees. Roll dough into 12-inch circle on lightly floured counter. Loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto 9-inch pie plate, letting excess dough hang over edge. Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into plate bottom with your other hand.

2. Trim overhang to ½ inch beyond lip of plate. Tuck overhang under itself; folded edge should be flush with edge of plate. Crimp dough evenly around edge of plate using your fingers. Wrap dough-lined plate loosely in plastic wrap and freeze until dough is firm, about 15 minutes.

3. Line chilled pie shell with parchment paper or double layer of aluminum foil, covering edges to prevent burning, and fill with pie weights. Bake until edges are light golden brown, about 20 minutes, rotating plate halfway through baking. Remove parchment and weights and continue to bake until crust is golden brown, 7 to 11 minutes longer. Let crust cool completely in plate on wire rack before proceeding with filling, about 45 minutes. (Baked, cooled crust can be wrapped in plastic wrap and stored at room temperature for up to 24 hours.)

4. FOR THE FILLING: Once crust has cooled completely, place chocolate in medium bowl; set aside. Whisk coconut milk, milk, sugar, cornstarch, and salt in medium saucepan until no lumps of cornstarch remain. Cook over medium heat, stirring and scraping saucepan corners constantly with rubber spatula, until mixture thickens to glue-like consistency and large bubbles break surface, about 6 minutes.

5. Quickly pour 1 cup coconut pudding over chocolate in bowl and whisk until smooth. Spread chocolate pudding evenly in cooled pie shell. Using clean, dry whisk, vigorously rewhisk remaining coconut pudding in saucepan, then gently pour on top of chocolate pudding and spread into even layer with rubber spatula. Refrigerate, uncovered, until set, at least 3 hours or up to 24 hours.

6. FOR THE TOPPING: Once pie is fully chilled, use stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment to whip cream and sugar on medium-low speed until foamy, about 1 minute. Increase speed to high and whip until stiff peaks form, 1 to 3 minutes. Transfer whipped cream to pastry bag fitted with medium open or closed star tip (about ½-inch diameter). Pipe whipped cream stars onto top of pie until completely covered. Serve.

