Chicken Chao Mian

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS:
Most American recipes for this traditional Cantonese dish are gloppy and uninspired—and topped with canned fried noodles. We wanted a fresher take, with an easy stir-fry method, that would come together quickly. First we brine the chicken briefly in a combination of baking soda and cold water, which helps keep the chicken tender while it cooks. Then we marinate the chicken in rice wine and cornstarch to keep the chicken moist. We cut the vegetables into similar sizes and shapes so they cook evenly. Then we add blanched Chinese egg noodles to the skillet and stir-fry everything together. The chow mein is finished with a sauce of rice wine, chicken broth, oyster sauce, and a bit of cornstarch, which allows the sauce to cling to the noodles without any floppiness.

SERVES 4

Purchase thin, round fresh Chinese egg noodles, not flat and/or dried noodles, or substitute 6 ounces of dried chow mein, ramen, or wheat vermicelli.

INGREDIENTS

1 (9-ounce) package fresh Chinese noodles
1 tablespoon toasted sesame oil
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 (6-ounce) boneless, skinless chicken breasts, trimmed and cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices
3 tablespoons Chinese rice wine or dry sherry
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/2 cup chicken broth
3 tablespoons soy sauce
3 tablespoons oyster sauce
1/4 teaspoon white pepper
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
6 ounces shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and sliced thin
1 carrot, peeled and cut into 2-inch matchsticks
2 celery ribs, cut on bias into 1/4-inch-thick slices
4 scallions, white and green parts separated and sliced thin
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger
4 ounces (2 cups) mung bean sprouts

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Bring 4 quarts water to boil in large pot. Add noodles to boiling water and cook until tender, 2 to 4 minutes. Drain noodles, rinse thoroughly with cold water, then drain again. Toss noodles with sesame oil in bowl; set aside.

2. Meanwhile, dissolve baking soda in 1/2 cup cold water in second bowl. Add chicken and let sit at room temperature for 15 minutes. Drain chicken, rinse under cold water, then drain again. Pat chicken dry with paper towels. Combine 1 tablespoon rice wine, 2 teaspoons cornstarch, and chicken in bowl; set aside.

3. Whisk broth, soy sauce, oyster sauce, pepper, remaining 2 tablespoons rice wine, and remaining 1 teaspoon cornstarch together in bowl; set aside.

4. Heat oil in 12-inch nonstick skillet over high heat until just smoking. Add chicken and cook, stirring frequently, until opaque, about 2 minutes. Add mushrooms and carrot and cook, stirring frequently, until tender, about 2 minutes. Add celery and cook until crisp-tender, about 1 minute. Add scallion whites, garlic, and ginger and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds.

5. Whisk broth mixture to recombine, then add to skillet and cook until thickened and chicken is cooked through, about 2 minutes. Add bean sprouts and noodles and toss until sauce evenly coats noodles, about 1 minute. Transfer to platter and sprinkle with scallion greens. Serve.

