Lion Head Meatballs 獅子頭

INGREDIENTS
¾ teaspoon baking soda
½ teaspoon table salt
2 pounds ground pork
1 large egg, lightly beaten
2 scallions, white parts minced, green parts sliced thin
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons Shaoxing wine or dry sherry
4 teaspoons sugar
2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger
½ teaspoon white pepper
4 cups chicken broth
1 small head napa cabbage (1½ pounds), quartered lengthwise, cored, and cut crosswise into 2-inch pieces
4 ounces rice vermicelli

BEFORE YOU BEGIN
Fully cooked ground pork can retain a slightly pink hue. Don't be concerned if the meatballs develop cracks while cooking. Shaoxing is a Chinese rice wine that can be found at Asian markets. If you can't find it, use dry sherry.

INSTRUCTIONS
Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and heat oven to 325 degrees. Whisk baking soda, salt, and 2 tablespoons water together in bowl of stand mixer. Add pork to baking soda mixture and toss to combine. Add egg, scallion whites, soy sauce, wine, sugar, ginger, and white pepper. Fit stand mixer with paddle and beat on medium speed until mixture is well combined and has stiffened and started to pull away from sides of bowl and pork has slightly lightened in color, 45 to 60 seconds. Using your wet hands, for about ½ cup (4½ ounces) pork mixture into 3-inch round meatball; repeat with remaining mixture to form 8 meatballs.

Bring broth to boil in large Dutch oven over high heat. Off heat, carefully arrange meatballs in pot (7 around perimeter and 1 center; meatballs will not be totally submerged). Cover pot, transfer to oven, and cook for 1 hour.

Transfer meatballs to large plate. Add cabbage to pot in even layer and arrange meatballs over cabbage, paler side up. Cover, return pot to oven, and continue to cook until meatballs are lightly browned and cabbage is softened, about 30 minutes longer.

While meatballs and cabbage cook, bring 4 quarts water to boil in large pot. Off heat, add vermicelli and let sit, stirring occasionally, until vermicelli is fully tender, 10 to 15 minutes. Drain, rinse with cold water, drain again, and distribute evenly among 4 to 6 large soup bowls.

Ladle meatballs, cabbage, and broth into bowls of noodles. Sprinkle with scallion greens and serve.