Salt and Pepper Shrimp

To make classic salt and pepper shrimp, the shrimp—with heads and shells intact—are deep-fried until crisp. This recipe is a much-simplified version, but it offers the same rich aromas and spicy, toasted-garlic flavor of the traditional recipe. Serve with rice and steamed or stir-fried greens.

4 servings, 45 minutes

1 1/2 pounds jumbo shrimp, peeled and deveined, tails left on
2 teaspoons Sichuan peppercorns
1 teaspoon white peppercorns
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon white sugar
4 tablespoons grapeseed or other neutral oil, divided
1 large jalapeño or 2 serrano chilies, stemmed and thinly sliced crosswise into rings
6 medium garlic cloves, finely chopped
1/4  cup finely chopped fresh ginger
1 bunch scallions, thinly sliced

DIRECTIONS
Pat the shrimp dry with paper towels and place in a large bowl. In a spice grinder, combine the Sichuan and white peppercorns, then grind until medium-fine (about the coarseness of kosher salt). Transfer to a small bowl and stir in the salt. In another small bowl, stir together 2 teaspoons of the pepper mixture, the cornstarch and sugar, then sprinkle over the shrimp and toss. Set remaining pepper mixture aside.

Line a baking sheet with paper towels. In a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil until beginning to smoke. Add half of the shrimp in an even layer and cook without stirring until deep golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes. Using tongs, flip and continue to cook until the shrimp are opaque on both sides, another 20 to 30 seconds. Transfer to the prepared baking sheet. Repeat with 1 tablespoon of the remaining oil and the remaining shrimp. Do not wash the skillet.

In the same skillet over medium-high, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons oil until shimmering. Add the jalapeño and cook, stirring, until the seeds begin to brown, about 1 minute. Add the garlic, ginger and all but 3 tablespoons of the scallions. Cook, stirring constantly, until the scallions and ginger have softened, about 2 minutes. Return the shrimp to the skillet and toss, then stir in the reserved spice mixture. Transfer to a platter and sprinkle with the remaining scallions.

