Taiwanese Braised Pork Belly
滷肉飯 (Lu3 Rou4 Fan4)

Fried Shallots:
2 shallots, sliced thin
½ c vegetable oil (use less, that’s so much!)

Cut the shallots into thin strips
Add 1/2 cup of oil to a small sauce pot, fry the shallots on low heat. It will take about 5-8 minutes to get it golden brown.
Strain it And you got your fried shallots.


Pork marinade:
2T light soy sauce
1T Shaoxing wine
500g pork belly (17 oz, just over a pound)

Cut the pork belly into ½” thick strips, then slice strips into ½” pieces. It is about half inch thick. 
Mix it with 2 tbsp of soy sauce, and 1 tbsp of Shao xing wine. Set it aside for at least 30 minutes.

Pork belly:
⅓ c Shaoxing wine
2T soy sauce
⅓ c fried shallots
3 cloves garlic
3 slices ginger
2 star anise
50g sugar (rock sugar??) 1.7 ounces
1t dark soy sauce
1t five spice powder
1.5L water

Heat up your wok. Add in your pork belly without oil. Stir fry it on medium heat.
Once you see it is getting a little burned on the bottom, then add the Shao xing wine, soy sauce, rock sugar, ginger, garlic, star anise and a pinch of five spice. Keep stirring it until the sugar melts.
Pour in 1 and half liter of water.
Add in the fried shallot we made before and add a tsp of dark soy sauce for color.
Bring it to a boil.
Turn the heat to low, let it stew for 1 -2 hours, depends on how tender you want.
After 1 and half hours the sauce still pretty thin. And there is a lot of fat floating on the top. Skim out the fat so your pork won’t be too oily.
Now you gonna turn the heat to high, start reducing the sauce. It will just take about few minutes. You will see a lot of bubbles and the sauce is getting thick.
When the sauce is almost gone, you can turn off the heat.

Serve over rice with soft boiled egg, baby bok choy.


Alternative using ground pork:
1 1/2 pounds ground pork
1 cup low-sodium soy sauce, divided, plus more, as needed
1/4 cup grapeseed or other neutral oil
12 ounces shallots, halved and thinly sliced
10 medium garlic cloves, minced
1 1/4 cups dry sherry
1/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons five-spice powder
1 tablespoon unseasoned rice vinegar
Steamed rice, to serve
3 scallions, thinly sliced on bias

In a medium bowl, mix the pork with ¼ cup of the soy sauce. Cover and refrigerate until needed.

In a large Dutch oven over medium, heat the oil until shimmering. Add the shallots and cook, stirring, until deeply browned, 15 to 20 minutes. Add the garlic and cook, stirring constantly, until the garlic is fragrant and just beginning to brown, about 1 minute.

Add the sherry, sugar, five-spice and remaining ¾ cup soy sauce. Stir until the sugar has dissolved, then increase to high and bring to a boil. Cook, stirring, until reduced and syrupy and a spoon leaves a clear trail, about 5 minutes.

Reduce to low and allow the simmering to subside. Add the pork, breaking it into small pieces. Cook, stirring, until the meat is no longer pink, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in the vinegar, then taste and add soy sauce, if needed. Spoon steamed rice into individual bowls, top with the pork and sprinkle with scallions.
Tip: Don’t use regular soy sauce; when reduced during cooking in this recipe it will become too salty. And don't use cooking sherry, which contains added salt; use an inexpensive dry sherry.
