Youtiao (Oil Stick)

1/2 c filtered water
1 large egg
2 1/4 c unbleached all-purpose flour
1 T baking powder
1 t salt
2 T cold, unsalted butter
8 c vegetable oil, for frying

In a medium bowl, whisk water and egg until smooth and well-combined, set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer, whisk flour, baking powder, and salt until combined, about 30 seconds. Add butter and egg mixture. Set bowl onto stand mixer and, using a dough hook, mix on low speed until liquids are absorbed and no dry flour remains, about 3 minutes.

Increase speed to medium-low and mix until butter is fully incorporated and dough starts to clear the sides of the bowl, 10-12 minutes. Transfer dough to a bare work surface, knead for 30 seconds, and shape into a 9-inch log. Press flat to 3/4" thickness. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 12 or up to 24 hours.

Remove dough from fridge and bring to room temperature, about 2-3 hours. Unwrap dough and transfer to a well-floured surface. Roll into a 10x6" rectangle. Using a pizza cutter or bench knife, divide dough into ten 1-inch by 6-inch strips. Cover dough loosely with a damp paper towel. Meanwhile heat oil in a large dutch oven over medium high heat until it registers 400F. Adjust heat as necessary to maintain temperature. Have a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet ready nearby.

Working with one strip at a time, cut in half crosswise to form two 3-inch strips. Brush the unfloured top side of one 3-inch strip lightly with water, then layer the second 3-inch strip, unfloured side down, directly on top. Lay a chopstick lengthwise along the middel of the layered dough strip and press firmly to seal the strips together and form a groove. Repeat with remaining strips and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let dough strips rest for 10 minutes.

Working with one strip at a time, hold both ends  of the dough and stretch to 8-10 inches in length. Carefully lower the dough into heated oil, gently laying the strip away from you, then immediately stretch a second strip of dough and add it carefully to the oil. Cook until dough sticks begin to float, about 10 seconds. Flip and cook for 10-15 seconds longer, then continue flipping in 10-15 second intervals until dough is puffed and golden brown, about 90 seconds total. Transfer dough to wire rack, sprinkle with salt if desired. Return oil to 400F and repeat.
