Burmese Chicken

A flavorful paste, made in the blender, allowed us to skip a marinade and instead season the chicken as it cooked. A dose of red pepper flakes lent moderate heat, but traditional Burmese food can be fairly spicy; if you want more heat, increase the pepper or stir in a slivered jalapeño, serrano or bird’s eye chili with the cilantro. We liked the chicken over steamed rice or thin rice noodles

4 servings, 30 minutes

8 ounces plum tomatoes (2 large), quartered
4 tablespoons grapeseed or other neutral oil, divided
3 teaspoons kosher salt, divided
2 teaspoons ground turmeric
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
2 stalks lemon grass, trimmed and chopped
5 ounces shallots (about 2 large), quartered
2 ounces fresh ginger, thinly sliced (about ¼ cup)
8 garlic cloves, smashed
1½ pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, trimmed and cut into 1½-inch pieces
1/2 cup chopped fresh cilantro
2 tablespoons lime juice, plus lime wedges to serve

Don’t use the fibrous outer layers of the lemon grass. You want only the white, slightly tender (but still firm) inner bulb. Trim the root and all but the bottom 5 inches of the stalk, then peel off the first few layers. If you buy lemon grass in a plastic clamshell container, it likely already has been trimmed.


In a blender, combine the tomatoes, 1 tablespoon of oil, 1 teaspoon salt, the turmeric, pepper flakes, lemon grass, shallots, ginger and garlic. Blend until a thick paste forms, about 1 minute, scraping down the blender as needed.

In a large Dutch oven over medium-high, add the remaining 3 tablespoons of oil, the chicken and the remaining 2 teaspoons of salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the chicken is no longer pink, about 5 minutes. Add the spice paste and cook, stirring occasionally, until fragrant and the paste coats the chicken, 2 to 3 minutes.

Cover, reduce heat to medium-low and cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes. Uncover, increase heat to medium-high and simmer until the chicken is cooked through and the sauce is thickened, 7 to 9 minutes. Off heat, stir in the cilantro and lime juice. Serve with lime wedges.

