Chicken Teriyaki Donburi

Chicken teriyaki is so often either saccharine sweet or doused with a thick, gloppy sauce. This version is a refinement—the chicken has a good sweet-salty balance and a light glaze-like sauce that coats the pieces. The term donburi refers to foods served over rice in individual bowls (deep Asian-style bowls are best), but if you prefer, you could simply spoon the rice and chicken onto plates.

4 tablespoons sake, divided
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken thighs, trimmed and cut into 1-inch pieces
2 tablespoons grapeseed or other neutral oil, divided
1/2 cup mirin
1/4 cup soy sauce, plus more as needed
1 tablespoon finely grated fresh ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
3 cups cooked Japanese-style short-grain rice
1 3-inch piece cucumber, cut into thin matchsticks (½ cup)
3 scallions, thinly sliced on bias
4 teaspoons sesame seeds, toasted

DIRECTIONS
In a medium bowl, whisk together 2 tablespoons of the sake and the cornstarch. Add the chicken and toss to coat. In a 12-inch skillet over medium-high, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil until shimmering. Add half of the chicken in a single layer and cook without stirring until golden brown on the bottom, about 3 minutes. Using a metal spatula, scrape up and flip the chicken, then cook without stirring until golden brown all over, about another 2 minutes. Transfer the chicken to a bowl.  Return the skillet to medium-high, add the remaining 1 tablespoon oil and repeat with remaining chicken. Discard any fat left in the pan.

Return the skillet to medium and add the mirin, soy sauce, ginger and remaining 2 tablespoons sake. Bring to simmer and cook, stirring and scraping up any browned bits, until a spoon drawn through the sauce leaves a trail, about 5 minutes.

Return the chicken and any accumulated juices to the pan. Add the pepper and cook, stirring, until the chicken is glazed, about 4 minutes. Taste and season with soy sauce. Divide the rice evenly among 4 serving bowls. Spoon the chicken over the rice and divide the cucumber among the bowls, piling the pieces on the side. Sprinkle with the scallions and sesame seeds.

Tip: Don’t use chicken breasts in place of the thighs. Chicken breasts dry out quickly but thighs remain juicy and flavorful, even if slightly overcooked.
