Pad Thai

WHY THIS RECIPE WORKS

The best pad Thai recipe should feature clean, fresh, not-too-sweet flavors; perfectly cooked noodles; and plenty of plump, juicy shrimp with tender bits of scrambled egg. To get the noodles right, we soaked rice sticks in hot tap water for 20 minutes before stir-frying for tender but not sticky noodles. To create the salty, sweet, sour, and spicy flavor profile of pad Thai, we combined fish sauce, sugar, ground chiles, and vinegar. We added tamarind paste for the fresh, bright, fruity taste that is essential to the dish.

INGREDIENTS
2	tablespoons tamarind paste or substitute (see Tamarind options in related articles)
¾	cup water (boiling)
3	tablespoons fish sauce
1	tablespoon rice vinegar
3	tablespoons granulated sugar
¾	teaspoon cayenne pepper
4	tablespoons peanut oil or vegetable oil
8	ounces dried rice stick noodles, about 1/8 inch wide (the width of linguine)
2	large eggs
¼	teaspoon table salt
12	ounces medium shrimp (31/35 count), peeled and deveined, if desired
3	cloves garlic, pressed through garlic press or minced (1 tablespoon)
1	medium shallot, minced (about 3 tablespoons)
2	tablespoons dried shrimp, chopped fine (optional)
2	tablespoons Thai salted preserved radish (optional)
6	tablespoons chopped unsalted roasted peanuts
3	cups bean sprouts (6 ounces)
5	medium scallions, green parts only, sliced thin on sharp bias
¼	cup fresh cilantro leaves (optional)
lime wedges

INSTRUCTIONS
SERVES 4 AS A MAIN DISH
A wok might be the implement of choice in restaurants and the old country, but a large 12-inch skillet (nonstick makes cleanup easy) is more practical for home cooks. Although pad thai cooks very quickly, the ingredient list is long, and everything must be prepared and within easy reach at the stovetop when you begin cooking. For maximum efficiency, use the time during which the tamarind and noodles soak to prepare the other ingredients. Tofu is a good and common addition to pad thai. If you like, add 4 ounces of extra-firm tofu or pressed tofu (available in Asian markets) cut into 1/2-inch cubes (about 1 cup) to the noodles along with the bean sprouts.

1. Soak tamarind paste in 3/4 cup boiling water for about 10 minutes, then push it through a mesh strainer to remove the seeds and fibers and extract as much pulp as possible. Stir fish sauce, rice vinegar, sugar, cayenne, and 2 tablespoons oil into tamarind liquid and set aside.

2. Cover rice sticks with hot tap water in large bowl; soak until softened, pliable, and limp but not fully tender, about 20 minutes. Drain noodles and set aside. Beat eggs and 1/8 teaspoon salt in small bowl; set aside.

3. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in 12-inch skillet (preferably nonstick) over high heat until just beginning to smoke, about 2 minutes. Add shrimp and sprinkle with remaining 1/8 teaspoon salt; cook, tossing occasionally, until shrimp are opaque and browned about the edges, about 3 minutes. Transfer shrimp to plate and set aside.

4. Off heat, add remaining tablespoon oil to skillet and swirl to coat; add garlic and shallot, set skillet over medium heat and cook, stirring constantly, until light golden brown, about 1 1/2 minutes; add eggs to skillet and stir vigorously with wooden spoon until scrambled and barely moist, about 20 seconds. Add noodles, dried shrimp, and salted radish (if using) to eggs; toss with 2 wooden spoons to combine. Pour fish sauce mixture over noodles, increase heat to high, and cook, tossing constantly, until noodles are evenly coated. Scatter 1/4 cup peanuts, bean sprouts, all but 1/4 cup scallions, and cooked shrimp over noodles; continue to cook, tossing constantly, until noodles are tender, about 2 1/2 minutes (if not yet tender add 2 tablespoons water to skillet and continue to cook until tender).

5. Transfer noodles to serving platter, sprinkle with remaining scallions, 2 tablespoons peanuts, and cilantro; serve immediately, passing lime wedges separately.

