Stir-Fried Garlic Beef with Scallions

This bold, flavorful stir-fry is a spin on Filipino beef salpicao, which counts Worcestershire sauce as a main ingredient. We've added a red bell pepper and an entire bunch of scallions for color and textural contrast, as well as sugar to balance the savoriness. The sauce is relatively thin—perfect for drizzling over steamed white rice.

1 pound beef sirloin tips or tri-tip, trimmed, patted dry and cut into 1-inch chunks
6 tablespoons soy sauce, divided
Ground black pepper
6 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
2 tablespoons packed brown sugar
3 tablespoons grapeseed or other neutral oil, divided
8 medium garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 bunch scallions, whites chopped, greens thinly sliced, reserved separately
1 medium red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded and thinly sliced
Lime wedges, to serve

In a medium bowl, stir together the beef, 1 tablespoon of soy sauce and ½ teaspoon pepper; set aside. In a small bowl, stir together the remaining 5 tablespoons soy sauce, the Worcestershire and sugar; set aside.

In a 12-inch skillet over high, heat 2 tablespoons of oil until barely smoking. Swirl to coat the pan, then add the beef in a single layer. Cook without stirring until well browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Stir, then transfer to a large plate.

In the same skillet over medium, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil until shimmering. Add the garlic, the scallion whites and bell pepper, then cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the Worcestershire mixture along with any accumulated juices from the beef and bring to a simmer, scraping up the browned bits. Cook, stirring, until a spatula leaves a trail when drawn through the sauce, 2 to 4 minutes.

Return the beef to the skillet and cook, stirring, just until heated through, about 30 seconds. Off heat, stir in the scallion greens and ½ teaspoon pepper. Serve with lime wedges.

Tip: Don't worry that the beef isn't fully cooked after searing; it will finish cooking when it's returned to the skillet and warmed through in the sauce.
