Stir-fried Udon Noodles

12 oz dried udon noodles
2 T plus 2 t grapeseed or other neutral oil
1/4 c soy sauce
1/4 c water
2 T mirin (rice wine)
1 t white sugar
3 small dried shiitake mushrooms, broken in half
8 oz fresh shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and thinly sliced
2 medium garlic cloves, minced
12 oz baby bok choy, trimmed and sliced crosswise 1/2" thick
1/2 t ground white pepper
2 scallions, thinly sliced on the bias
1 T sesame seeds, toasted

In a large pot, bring 4 quarts of water to boil. Add the noodles, stir well and cook until al dente. Drain using a colander then add 2 c ice to the noodles. Run under cool water, tossing, until they are chilled. Drain well, then transfer to a large bowl. Toss with 2 t of the oil and set aside. (Alternatively, buy fresh or frozen udon noodles ready to eat)

In a small saucepan over medium heat, combine the soy sauce, water, mirin, and sugar. Bring to a simmer, stirring, then add the dried mushrooms, pushing them into the liquid. Remove from head, cover, and set aside until the mushrooms have softened, about 20-30 minutes.

Remove the mushrooms from the soy sauce mixture, squeezing them to allow any liquid to drip back into the pan. Remove and discard the stems then finely chop. Transfer to a medium bowl and set aside.

In a large skillet over medium-high heat, bring 1 T oil to heat and add the fresh mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, until lightly browned and slightly shrunken, about 3 minutes. Add the onion, drizzle with the remaining 1 T oil and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is softened, about 3 minutes. Stir in the garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the bok choy and cook, stirring, until the leaves are wilted and the stem pieces are crisp-tender, about 2 minutes. Add to the chopped dried shiitakes.

Set the now empty skillet over medium heat and add the udon, gently tossing with tongs. Add the vegetable mixture and gently toss a few times, then add the soy sauce mixture and white pepper. Cook, tossing constantly, until the noodles are heated and have absorbed most of the liquid, about 2 minutes. Transfer to serving bowls and sprinkle with scallions and sesame seeds and serve.